Yes — here’s a tighter, builder-ready version of #83 in one place.

#83 - Sync schedule-editor filters to the URL

What & Why

The CSV export schedule editor lets reviewers configure the same journal-entry filters they use on the live journal-entries page: status, source, posted-by, approver, and date window. Right now those values live only in component state, which means:

a teammate cannot open a shared link and see the same preview state
browser back/forward does not walk through filter changes
the schedule editor behaves differently from the journal-entries list even though it uses the same filtering concepts

This task brings the schedule editor in line with Task #72 by making the schedule editor’s filter state URL-driven. A copied link must reopen the editor with the same selections restored, and browser navigation must move between prior filter states cleanly.

This is URL-sync only. It does not change how schedules are saved to the database, how preview data is fetched, or how scheduled jobs actually run.

Done looks like
The schedule editor’s filter controls round-trip through the URL query string:
status
source
postedBy
approver
from
to
Opening a shared link with those query params restores the editor with the same filter selections visible in the UI.
Changing any filter updates the URL immediately without a full page reload.
Browser back/forward restores prior filter states correctly.
Clearing a filter removes that query param from the URL rather than leaving empty-string junk behind.
Invalid query values do not crash the page. They are ignored and normalized back to safe defaults.
The editor’s preview query uses the URL-sourced normalized filters, so the visible preview and the shareable URL always match.
Existing schedule loading/editing behavior still works. If the route already has schedule identity params, this task must preserve them and only add/update the filter params.
The implementation follows the same URL-sync conventions already used on:
artifacts/finance-portal/src/pages/journal-entries-list.tsx
Explicit scope
In scope
URL query parsing + normalization for schedule-editor filters
keeping UI controls in sync with URL state
keeping preview fetches in sync with normalized URL state
back/forward support
preserving unrelated query params already used by the editor route, if any
Out of scope
changing saved schedule schema in DB
persisting these filters server-side in a new way
changing email/send-log behavior
changing export job execution logic
adding new filters beyond the existing five plus date window
changing the journal-entries page itself
Canonical query params

Use one stable query param per filter. Do not invent alternates.

status
source
postedBy
approver
from
to
Param behavior
Omit params that are unset
For single-select filters, store a single scalar value
For multi-select filters, mirror the existing journal-entries-list convention exactly
if Task #72 used repeated params, use repeated params here too
if Task #72 used comma-separated encoding, use the same here too
from and to must use the same date-string format the preview API already expects

If the schedule editor today uses different internal names, keep those internal names if needed, but the URL contract above should be the public shape unless the journal-entries page already established a different exact contract. If so, match the journal-entries page exactly.

Normalization rules

On initial load and on every URL change:

Parse query params into normalized filter state
Unknown enum values are ignored
Empty strings are treated as unset
Invalid dates are treated as unset
If only one side of the date range is valid, keep the valid side
If both dates are present but invalid as a range per existing report/list rules, do not crash
keep the raw URL stable until the user changes it, or normalize to safe unset values depending on the existing Task #72 pattern
whichever pattern the journal-entries list already uses, mirror that behavior here

Do not create infinite URL rewrite loops. Only call setSearchParams when the serialized next params actually differ from the current params.

Acceptance gates
Gate 1 — deep-link restore

Given a schedule-editor URL containing filter params, when the page loads:

every picker reflects those values
the preview uses those same values
no extra click is required to “apply” them
Gate 2 — shareability

Given a user changes filters in the editor:

the URL updates
copying the URL and opening it in a new tab reproduces the same editor state
Gate 3 — navigation

Given a user changes filters multiple times:

browser Back restores the immediately prior filter state
browser Forward restores the next filter state
Gate 4 — clearing

Given a user clears a picker/date:

the matching query param disappears from the URL
preview updates accordingly
Gate 5 — invalid params

Given a URL contains bad values like:

unknown status
unknown source
malformed postedBy / approver
invalid from / to
the page does not white-screen, and the editor falls back to safe normalized state.
Gate 6 — no save-path regression

Saving or updating a schedule still works exactly as before. URL filter sync must not break create/edit flows.

Gate 7 — preserved route identity

If the route already includes schedule ID or similar identifying params:

those params remain intact when filters change
filter updates do not navigate the user away from the editor context
Implementation steps
1) Locate the editor page and match the existing pattern

Find the schedule editor under:

artifacts/finance-portal/src/pages/

Likely files:

scheduled-exports-*.tsx

Use this as the pattern reference:

artifacts/finance-portal/src/pages/journal-entries-list.tsx

Do not invent a new URL-sync pattern if the journal-entries page already has a working helper or serializer/parser pair. Reuse it or clone it closely.

2) Introduce URL-backed filter state

Replace purely local component-state ownership for:

status
source
postedBy
approver
from
to

with a model like:

derive normalized filter state from useSearchParams()
render controls from normalized URL state
on control change, write updated search params back to the URL

If the page still needs transient local state for text inputs or date typing, keep that only where necessary, but the canonical applied filter state must come from the URL.

3) Add parser + serializer helpers

Create small pure helpers near the page or in a shared filter util if one already exists:

parseScheduleEditorFilters(searchParams)
serializeScheduleEditorFilters(filters, existingSearchParams?)

Responsibilities:

validate enums
coerce empty/invalid values to unset
preserve unrelated query params
remove cleared values cleanly
output stable ordering to avoid noisy history churn

If the journal-entries list already has equivalent helpers, reuse them instead of creating a parallel dialect.

4) Drive preview queries from normalized URL state

Any preview fetch, preview table, or preview badge in the schedule editor must read from the normalized URL-backed filter object, not stale local state.

That ensures:

visible controls
current URL
preview results

all describe the same state.

5) Preserve existing schedule load/save logic

If the schedule editor loads an existing schedule record:

keep that behavior untouched
do not accidentally overwrite saved schedule configuration just because URL filters are present
this task is about the editor preview/filtering experience, not changing persisted schedule payload unless the editor already intentionally persists those same filters

If the save payload is already supposed to contain these filters, make sure the saved payload uses the same normalized values the URL reflects. If not, do not broaden save semantics here.

6) Handle back/forward correctly

Use the router/search-param API in a way that allows browser history to reflect meaningful filter changes.

Expectation:

each intentional filter change becomes navigable
rapid no-op normalizations do not spam history
no effect loop that repeatedly rewrites params

If the journal-entries page uses replace for some changes and push-history for others, mirror that logic.

7) Add regression coverage

Add focused tests for:

parsing valid query params into editor state
ignoring invalid enum/date values
serializing cleared filters by removing params
restoring editor state from a copied URL
back/forward navigation between filter states
preview consuming normalized URL state rather than stale component state

Prefer matching the test style already used for the journal-entries shareable-link work.

Suggested technical shape
Read path
const [searchParams, setSearchParams] = useSearchParams()
const filters = useMemo(() => parseScheduleEditorFilters(searchParams), [searchParams])
Write path

Each control change:

compute next normalized filter object
serialize into next search params
compare before writing
call setSearchParams(nextParams) only if changed
Preview path
usePreviewQuery(filters) or equivalent
no separate applied-filter state unless there is a specific date-input typing reason
Edge cases to cover
shared URL contains only from but not to
shared URL contains status= blank
shared URL contains repeated/invalid source values
shared URL contains user IDs for postedBy/approver that no longer resolve in the picker list
keep the page stable
show safe fallback UI
do not crash the picker
editor route already has other params; filter updates must preserve them
opening a saved schedule with no query params still behaves exactly like today
Relevant files
artifacts/finance-portal/src/pages/scheduled-exports-*.tsx
artifacts/finance-portal/src/pages/journal-entries-list.tsx

Potential shared helpers if present:

any existing query-param filter utils used by journal entries
any picker option helpers shared between schedule editor and JE list
Dependency
Show who's filtered when sharing a journal-entries link

This task should mirror that behavior, not invent a second contract.

Builder notes
Prefer reusing the exact enum/value mapping already used by the journal-entries list.
Prefer one canonical parser/serializer pair.
Do not let local state and URL state drift.
Do not widen scope into schedule persistence changes unless the existing page already couples preview filters to saved schedule filters.
The win here is boring consistency: shared link in, same editor state out.